---
tags: post
title: "2009 — Maxwell escape"
showTitle: true
date: 2009-12-31
deck: Year in Review
layout: post.njk
description: 2009 was a postive year; it felt like a turning point in my journey. As I transitioned from my first to the second year in engineering school, I realized the depth of the challenges that lay ahead. Those early days were a whirlwind - classes seemed endless, work piled up, and exams tested limits. But amidst the chaos, there was growth. I owe a lot of that growth to my friends who were around. One event I'll always remember was the final practical exam in electrical engineering. Walking into that room, I was really nervous. I hadn't attended many practical classes and was scared to take this exam. Luckily, I got an experiment I was good at. Completing it successfully was a big relief.
permalink: /journal/maxwell-escape/
--- 

2009 was a postive year; it felt like a turning point in my journey. As I transitioned from my first to the second year in [engineering school](/education/bachelors-cs/), I realized the depth of the challenges that lay ahead. Those early days were a whirlwind - classes seemed endless, work piled up, and exams tested limits. But amidst the chaos, there was growth. I owe a lot of that growth to my friends who were around. One event I'll always remember was the final practical exam in electrical engineering. Walking into that room, I was really nervous. I hadn't attended many practical classes and was scared to take this exam. Luckily, I got an experiment I was good at. Completing it successfully was a big relief.

Late-night work sessions, group discussions, and collective brainstorming became my routine, especially when we worked with math and physics. Beyond the confines of the classroom, I began to explore new avenues. I took my first steps into the world of freelancing, discovering the joy of applying knowledge to real-world challenges. My participation in design and programming competitions was another highlight. I still remember the rush when, on a whim, I submitted two distinct submissions for a competition. The elation I felt upon securing both the first and second positions was special. 

However, the journey had its share of bumps. There were moments of self-doubt, times when I wished for a mentor, someone with experience to guide my steps. While I was surrounded by well-meaning peers, I often felt a disconnect, sensing that they couldn't fully grasp my aspirations. This gap pushed me to be self-reliant, to seek knowledge independently, and to carve my own path. In my work, I adopted a simple plan: evolve with every project. This mindset served me well, though it also revealed a personal challenge. My eagerness to solve often led me to jump into solutions without fully understanding the problem. It was a reminder that patience, as much as skill, was key to growth. As the curtains drew on 2009, introspection took center stage. Amidst the daily grind, I found myself pondering my direction. Where was I headed? What did I truly seek? It became evident that I needed more than just goals; I needed more clarity.