---
tags: post
title: "2011 — Markers and matches"
showTitle: true
date: 2011-12-31
deck: Year in Review
layout: post.njk
description: As 2011 comes to an end, I've been reflecting on what this pivotal year has meant for me, especially during my third and fourth years in computer science engineering. My days typically began with the familiar commute to college, where my team and I delved deeply into our challenging thesis project on video marker tracking in variable lighting. The project was both technically demanding and creatively fulfilling, a balance that kept me engaged. When not immersed in the project or classes, the library served as a sanctuary. There, surrounded by stacks of books, I could focus on my studies and occasionally explore other interesting topics. This small yet meaningful circle of friends provided valuable emotional support as we navigated the academic and social complexities of college life.
permalink: /journal/markers-and-matches/
--- 
As 2011 comes to an end, I've been reflecting on what this pivotal year has meant for me, especially during my third and fourth years in computer science engineering. My days typically began with the familiar commute to college, where my team and I delved deeply into our challenging thesis project on video marker tracking in variable lighting. The project was both technically demanding and creatively fulfilling, a balance that kept me engaged. When not immersed in the project or classes, the library served as a sanctuary. There, surrounded by stacks of books, I could focus on my studies and occasionally explore other interesting topics. This small yet meaningful circle of friends provided valuable emotional support as we navigated the academic and social complexities of college life.

Stepping into the role of thesis team leader was both an honor and a challenge. While the experience was empowering, it made me question the fairness of the department's selection process for leadership roles. My team, although not always technically proficient, displayed admirable dedication and resilience in the face of numerous challenges. Our project advisor was supportive but fell short in providing technical guidance. This lack of direction forced us to be proactive in our own learning, sparking thoughts about the effectiveness of our broader educational system. Is it genuinely preparing us for the complexities of the professional world?

One of the year’s standout moments was my selection for the Topcoder Open 2011 world finals, which felt like a validation of the countless hours spent refining my coding skills. While I wasn't focused on self-reflection at the time, I intuitively felt that documenting my experiences would be important. I saw these notes as a kind of time capsule, allowing me to revisit this significant phase of my life in the years to come. Overall, the year has been a mix of rigorous academic engagement, social bonding, and personal growth. I can't help but feel that these experiences have prepared me well for the future, whatever it may hold.